# 1. INTRODUCTION 

NADRA's Services Charter (the "Charter") emphasizes the organization's commitment to providing transparent, efficient, and accessible services to citizens, and all stakeholders. This charter outlines the services one can expect and the application process to be followed. By specifying timelines, procedures, requirements, and mutual expectations, it ensures that all stakeholders are well-informed and enabled to benefit from NADRA's services.

Registering and obtaining legal identity is an obligation for all citizens, as it serves as the key enabler for access to a wide range of rights and services. For example; it is the recognition of one's legal status in Pakistan, enabling access to entitled vital services such as participation in elections, access to healthcare, education, social security, communication and financial services. Realizing the responsibility, NADRA has endeavored to make this services charter, reader-friendly. The Charter is divided into concise sections, which covers the structure of NADRA, the legal framework, products, eligibility criteria, and application process. Moreover, it stipulates the various channels of communication available to citizens and stakeholders to provide their feedback and get their complaints and concerns addressed.

In addition to core registration of people and things; NADRA assists governance and enables access to social welfare services. NADRA also provides verification and e-KYC services, which are available to the public and private sectors. NADRA core "values" have been elaborated, and the charter also deliberates the rights and responsibilities of all who avail its services.